In this lecture, we are going to begin displaying the recipe in the block for the Gutenberg editor.
We prepared the end point for grabbing this information.
Let's send your request to our custom end point from our block in your editor.
Open the index JS file.
First, let's import some components and functions that we'll need at the top of the file.
Import the API.
Fetch function from the WordPress slash API.
Fetch package.
The API fetch function is going to help us send a request to our rest API.
Next, let's import the use state and use effect functions from the WordPress slash element package.
They use effect function will help us send a request when the component has been initialized.
However, we don't want to rescind the request after updating the component.
As for the used state function.
We're going to store the post data in the component state.
It's not necessary to store it as an attribute since the post ID is stored as a transient value.
Lastly, let's import the spinner component from the WordPress slash components package.
The request will take a while to complete while the request is being processed.
We'll display the spinner component to indicate the post is loading.
This is everything we'll need.
Let's start working on the blocks template.
Scroll to the edit function.
Let's define the component state.
With the used state function, the value will be an object.
In this object at a property called is loading with an initial value of true.
This property will be responsible for toggling the appearance of the spinner.
Initially, the spinner will appear while the request is pending.
After the request has been completed, we will toggle this property to false, thus causing the spinner
to disappear.
Next, let's add three properties called URL, image and title.
All properties will have an initial value of no.
These properties will be updated with the data from their response.
After creating the state, let's de structure the return of value into two variables called post and
set post.
Next we can begin to send a request after the use state function run the use effect function with an
arrow function passed in as the second argument.
Before the arrow function.
Add the async keyword.
Requests are asynchronous.
To help us deal with the asynchronous request.
We're adding the async keyword after adding the function at an empty array as the second argument to
the use effect function.
By default, the use effect function will execute the function on every component update.
The request does not need to be sent multiple times.
One time is plenty.
Adding an empty array will instruct react to run the function once during the initialization of the
component.
Let's begin sending the request inside the function.
Create a variable called response.
The value for this variable will be the API fetch function with the weight keyword.
We're going to send the request to our custom end point by passing in an object with a property called
Path.
The path to our endpoint is the following up slash v one slash daily recipe.
After receiving the response, the state can be updated with the response data.
Let's call the set post function inside the object.
Let's set the is loading property to false.
This value indicates the request has been completed.
Our block can display the data afterward.
Spread the response variable into the object.
The property names from the response matched the names from our state.
Updating the data is as simple as merging the response data into the state.
Our data is ready.
The final step is to update the template.
This process will be very simple.
It's nothing we haven't done before.
Scroll to the templates and the template.
We have an anchor element for displaying the post.
This element should be updated to dynamically render the post data.
Above the element add the following expression.
Post dot is loading.
Question mark.
Spinner colon.
Before rendering the element.
We are checking the is loading property for a truth value.
If it is, the spinner component should be rendered.
Otherwise lets render the anchor element at the end of the ternary operator.
Lastly, we can update the attributes and text with the post state.
Set the ref attribute to the post dot URL property.
Next set the source attribute to the post dot image property.
Lastly, update the inner text of the H three text with an expression.
The expression will be the post title property.
The block is complete.
Let's try testing the block before moving on in the browser.
Refresh the Gutenberg Editor.
Add the daily recipe block to the page.
Initially, the spinner component will appear for a brief moment.
Once the request is complete, the post data appears in the block.
Perfect.
The block is finished for the Gutenberg editor.
The last steps are to render this information on the front end with server side rendering.
Let's finish our block in the next lecture.